My two favourite Joyce Manor songs are Do You Really Want To Not Get Better? and Stairs, both of their album Cody. 
This is odd, probably, because they are the most out of place songs in their whole discography. 
I adore Never Hungover Again and 40z to fresno, but Cody feels really deeply personal to me. 
I wish I had heard Eighteen at that age, but it is practically preordained that you receive those messages with a nostalgic retrospective. 
I would have neglected it, likely. The cheesy and poppy lyrics work to great effect in their kind of sardonic earnestness. "Just find something to do, and then do it". 
It is this cheese that distills the simplicity of being so young yet so hyperfixated on the time you have already lost. 
Sometimes, you just don't grow linearly. You can get older and just exist.
<br></br>
To me, Cody is about our flickering dusky memories of our interactions with others in their broad spectrum. 
Last you heard of me captures the odd sensation of having an candidly intimate experience with a stranger that feels seductively compelling at the time but is simultaneously destined to collapse into nothing immediately as if a unspoken contract. 
It leaves you a little off balance, wearing the same clothes as yesterday, unwashed, feeling the foreign wind of a faraway street outside someone else's apartment. You could swear you knew them, but its a construction; a play you both wrote that night. 
There's a sense of ennui in saying "well guess I'll never see them again". "Angel in the snow" reflects on this feeling, finding it hard not to indulge in the sorrow of the world and finding no amazement in the everyday, seeing it as making "something out of nothing" but that can only make you wanna die. 
There isn't nothing, existence is a chain of auspicious moments.
<br></br>
Writing these deeply personal and ironically-toned songs is a messy thing to do, it characterises the artist as a person so it feels too intimate, so its fitting the album closes 
with "This Song Is A Mess But So Am I". We can't help but personalise our existence and that is impressed in the art we produce.
<br></br>
Do You Really Want To Not Get Better? features the then unknown (and uncredited) Phoebe Bridgers. 
I can't really talk about this one too much. It is brief and poignant and if you listen to it, and have lived through this kind of experience, the twangy autumnal guitar that puts you back in a emotion-dulling transitory period will resonate with you. 
There isn't much going on, but theres so many photos on my digicam where I know when taking the photo I was feeling exactly what this song attempts to convey. 
It's on the surface about addiction, but it feels like its about the places you can't go anymore for fear of overwriting the memory. 

Okay this was all a preamble of thoughts to get to Stairs. Stairs is the most confessional with its sardonic portrayal of this larger-than-life codependence and obsession. 
It is so brutal in its lyricism that it has to be made with a tinge of irony as to not be drenched in inward repulsion. In this, I can relate, especially with obsession. 
I'm writing this as an analysis and also my own layered and self indulgent confessional, which i seem to be doing a lot lately as if to absolve my guilt piece by piece. The opening presents a pretty funny image. 
A 26 year old guy living with his parents, fundamentally incapable of maintaining his life in the most basic tasks, yet presumably has captured a partner through some redeeming quality, we have to assume. 
It becomes clear that this person instead captures those around him rather than draw them in through their personality. He traps them with notions of "when nobody loves you" "they don't even care"; 
you will decay and so will I, so in our union we can circumvent this fate. Entrapment.
<br></br>
There is some purity to the maligned intent. 
It is a childish desire to secure and protect something as divine as the loved individual, someone who seems so great and magnified to a statue larger than the earth on a platinum pedestal. 
Your idol allows you to move through life, so you heed to "be careful who you talk to"; a seemingly kind warning that has the implication of isolating the loved from other social interactions. 
You secretly yearn for nothing more than to stunt the social development of the loved, so that they can be eternally yours, and like you, afraid of everything in the world that isn't the partner. This is autobiographical. 
By the final chorus, it can't be held back anymore. An extra verse emerges from this furtive dark kindness. "I wish that I could hide you", put them away from the rest of the world, such that no one can even know them except you, but most significantly where no one can "hurt you" or "change you"; so they are not exposed to the risk of pain and therefore evolution, 
so they are forever at the level of the protagonist in their excessive time in the womb. The solution is obvious, "lock you in my room", to turn the lover into furniture; property and "tie you to the sheets" so the protagonist can "watch you sleep for weeks". And they would delight in this, the lover as the idol, as the reason to live, to become the protector. 
<br></br>
What is so special about the lyricism here is how the mania of the desire evolves so easily as the song progresses. 
It's delusional, but empathetic. I can see my own avenue of thoughts in love and see how they could have eventually become this, how i trapped someone, made them this glass doll that simultaneously needed to be protected and the supreme mothering carer. 
The inability to compromise and let someone be themselves, so they must become an object of pure love, and therefore somehow entirely yours and seperate from the world other than their relation to you. They must become you, from their soul, so you can vicariously nurse yourself and never risk anything. 
Its an ouroboros of the destruction of two at the hands of just you. 
<br></br>
In the mind of the protagonist, the brilliance of the loved makes them "a magnet for all evil", so they must be secured. 
The protagonist alledges to live outside of the flings of evil too, presumably because their sheltered life. He draws those into his Plato's cave because not only is it all he knows how to do, but to be exposed to evil could imply something other than him, to propose that he is incorruptible but the loved isn't. 
So, paradoxically, the loved must have some mal-intent. It is this belief which is the seed for the excess scrutiny, for the surveilance of the partner of which I have been complicit in the past.
<br></br>
Uncommon to Joyce Manor to my ear at least, violins come in at the end lending a sincerity to the pathetic nature of the character of the song. 
Yes, despite the psychotic imagery, it is summoned by a true feeling of helplessness and a burning desire to preserve the purity of a nascent view of love. Protecting it from any outward sphere of influence, somnolently bathing in one's bubble. Love is so great in its power over our life that we become feral to force it to become uncorruptible, corrupting it in the process and destroying it. Leaving us only with the realisation of what we've done, that we are the destroyer, that we can't do anything without it, but we must also let it roam freely. I, in my posessiveness and obsession, destroyed love in this way once before. I'll carry that for the rest of my life. 
You must go down the stairs and embrace the peril they imply. Tying down your life upstairs will leave you pale, shambling, and helpless. "What'll I do without you", nothing, as long your conception of relations with others is a museum and a hall of narcissitic mirrors. 
You capture people to allow yourself to exist, both as the individual and the hero. You forget that those in your cages are alive so easily. 
Don't walk down the stairs slowly because someone told you to, its a poigniant metaphor. 
<br></br>
Go downstairs 
go outside 
get hurt
smoke a cigarette and try and hide that you don't know how to
trip 
burn your tongue 
pretend you know more than you do
love 
love again 
drink too much coffee
go to the party you don't want to go to 
drive somewhere by yourself 
drink too much alcohol
find new friends 
leave your home behind and make a new one
read a book in the park
don't try to replace the memories, don't.
Love again 