I think anyone new to mega man is always pretty surprised at the lack of 
mechanical difference between the NES games, X, Zero, and mega man 11. It has 
hardly evolved in any sense which can be a huge barrier to entry to the point 
of impenetrability. The first time I tried mega man X, I was drawn in by the 
soundtrack and X's design but could not parse how even as a SNES game it felt 
so antiquated. I keep finding myself drawn back into mega man however, and I 
think it's because the philosophical purity of the franchise; it is so arterial
not just due to its sheer age but its inextricable bind to why games remain a 
motivating hobby.
<br></br>
The lack of the series evolution is of particular note (not counting starforce, battle network, or legends).
It has been this way for so long that it would be ignoration to analyse it as anything other than intentional. Its not like 
mega man has become more expressive either to compensate, the transition to 3d models 
did not mark a transition from the rigidity of a spritesheet, nor did the music become markedly more complex.
I'm sure to older players, theres a certain quaintness to it in the era of ue5 particle effect overstimulation
and flashy persona 5 UIs. I was initially too zoomer brained to appreciate this charm, but I definitely got it 
on subsequent playthroughs of X, though I still find mega man 11 to be rather soulless. 
<br></br> 
Of course, it has maintained a certain unforgiving sharp-edged approach to design that doesn't 
make allowance for skill difference. It is so earnest in its experience that it doesn't compensate 
for the player. In the face of how rigid these games are, it only asks that you deal with it. 
It doesn't make sense why one would or why this series would have persisted for so long with that approach. It 
doesn't attempt to maintain a dopamine hook whatsoever. The loop isn't one of consistent progression, you don't fail
knowing you can do something else intuitively, you can only get better, and any experiment will be punished. 
The picture I am painting here is an attempt to convey my thesis on why this series remains popular and 
why I find them so engrossing, the philosophic boundaries it defines in its design is that of one where 
the only essence of player interaction it extracts through the controller is that of raw perseverance. 
There isn't some grand lore, psychological manipulation, or narrative to keep you coming back to stop the robot masters in this 
seemingly moronic world where you can freely construct sentient nature/animal/job themed robots and give 
them extremely powerful weapons, and there isn't a great sense of reward, you don't really level up 
and most of the weapons are so situational. You persevere because there is some innate quality of your 
soul beckoning you to, fully cognizant of the time wasted to repetition. Even in Dark Souls, which is 
regrettably being referenced here because of the now-trite retreat to its quality, there is the ability 
to grind, to keep numbers going up, as to not feel as though time is wasted. Part of the art in enjoying 
Mega Man is allowing it to absorb your time, to make you feel ok with time lost, if not only comforted 
by the fact that you got a little better without numerical representation of progress. Even a book, if one 
was distracted and extracted nothing from it, can still take solace in the marked progression through pages.
<br></br>
He is so hopelessly outclassed by all his enemies. He is weak, and unless the conditions are absolutely specific owed to your practice
and knowledge of the game, he will be relentlessly defeated. With a character like sonic, he is 
engineered in such a way that you have hope and knowledge he will succeed. He is meant to exude 
optimism because that is the point. Mega Man is completely unemotional for what can only plausibly 
be for insertion into the character. We are all hopelessly outclassed by life and attempting it 
with no clear goal in mind, just the notion of having "won" (even when there are hundreds of games to potentially beat).
We persevere with utterly no reason to do so, its a very empathetic tale despite there being no vessel
for communication other than your soul resonating with the very basic game. Its a sort of mirror 
into our own inadequacy and attempts regardless of the conditions we are exposed to, and a reminder
that even if we don't know it, we are progressing. 