I find it difficult to call myself an artist though art is really my driving force in life. Well, to be more
accurate, creation is my motivator. Creation implies art as far as I care and I don't believe that to be particularly 
novel so i won't dwell on it. Why do I feel this difficulty? Do I feel like I am owed some other titles?
<br></br>
Well, I was once a student. I didn't feel an air of uncomfortability with that title for two reasons. 1. It is implicitly noble 
to be a student; to be a seeker of knowledge with the corollary of not having the immediate reward of gain in terms of capital. 
2. It was declared as so by the system of government I am under and other institutions such as the cinema validated that with some benefit.
In regard to the nobility of the title, I am being furtive in my meaning because it relates to an impossible problem. It is noble because it is 
humanistic to desire to understand, as it is at a fundamental level the only task humans can undertake with their consciousness seperate 
from their animal behaviours. It defines humanity and is therefore humanistic in a self actualising and boring way. Perhaps noble is the wrong word then. It is
a title that reasserts my own humanity. However, the nobility falters when it is a means to an end, as it then relates to a value proposition beyond humanity - 
it returns to the animalistic gain of capital. While this post intends to be more structured than my prior writing on blogs, I suggest the metaphor here 
of capital as a hunger for food beyond necessity, which is trite. Because my pursuit of knowledge fell into the former category, I felt owed it, but only under the system
which authorised me to have it, though the humanism of it assumes that all are owed it. This is where the uncomfortability begins to emerge. The title 
of utmost unifying potential becomes something that allows me to seperate and thus conquer. There is an implict power divide between me as a student, and someone who is not.
whether they are a member of the workforce or not. Though more "professionally" nascent in the defined echelon here, student feels more powerful. So I am not uncomfortable with it,
because the power it imposes affords me the ability to not be. However, someone who has never been classified a student under this definition which is authorised by my second reason, 
government, is subject to the power of this title. They are not allowed to contribute to the body of intellect and will not receive the benefits as such, despite being less economically 
capable because of the power structure in this "seed" of all titles which is student. This seed opens a greater dialogue that I will leave for more academically oriented individuals, 
as I have lost this title now I am graduated, and thus the power to exercise this. And now as an extrinsic entity who still seeks knowledge yet is not governmentally defined as a student, 
I feel a friction with the title and the person I was who emboldened its power. I definitely did look down upon those who did not go to university and that was afforded me simply by going to the movies. 
<br></br> 
Professionally, I am now a software engineer. This was guaranteed by my degree; an object by which me, the subject, is allowed to be this. But I do not feel comfortable with this title. 
There is not an immediate correlation with the title and the degree. The degree is a document by which I can prove my eligibility for earning the title. The remainder of the task of earning 
it is one of potential deception by all parties involved. The activities undertaken with that title are not correlated linearly with its definition either. It unravels from the more 
concrete title of student into the abstract. To what purpose does my title serve and aside from that semi-objective theory, why is it personally disconcerting? It nauseates me so because it implies some domain of knowledge 
without seeking it. To be of a title aside from student, philosopher, or others within those bounds, you are defined as someone who knows, paradoxically, a great deal about something nonspecific. I am a writhingly pathetic 
approximation of the depth of knowledge of some software engineers, and as such they are more deserving of the title by its objective merit because they represent more of the totality of knowledge an occupational title embodies.
Then there is the disparity of worth that comes along with that, not just in the financial, but that we are some kind of unified consciousness under this title, which can't be true. It forms this microcosm of a class structure within 
its own class with the moniker of its title. 
<br></br>
The title of this post is suspicion of titles so now I'd like to move onto titles not attained by me, but are above me structurally. Doctor is an easy and obvious one to reach at. A doctor is a title coveted by similar tertiary and voluntary 
perceived intellectual work that a student undertakes, but some supposed higher capacity to be of such divination that they can create new knowledge, and beyond that decide who gets to contribute to this pantheon. It is associated with more suffering than whimsy of a student,
both in academia and the medical world. In both medical and academic, it commands something over you either biologically, or epistemologically; definition of body or truth. These are titles which bestow a social power more direct than that
of the politician, who is tasks with unifying many titles in a pursuit to improve life seperate from those titles (supposedly). There is a supposed correlation with their dedication and their endowed wrath over what becomes objective. 
In unifying academia and medical, they become arbiters of sterilisation. Both are tasked with eliminating deviations as pathological issues by their title. In my title, I have no adjudication that can unite the nebulous cloud of the body of work 
the software engineer undertakes, nor can I create new knowledge. I can work within the bounds of my degree to create new material, which is an abstraction of truthes I am afforded. In reality, computer scientists, which are the arbiters of these constraints
and a form of doctor, are doctors of convention. There is no real engineering or science in this domain, there is social science to create a rigor of convention by which engineering is permitted to exist. The doctor creates the truth by which the working class
is able to undertake their body of work. 
<br></br>
Does the doctor paw at the edges of the unbound to mold nothing into structural truth? Possibly, but it's also likely in the echelon of titles there is someone which feeds them this capability too. Professor or teacher cannot suffice because they represent both the 
incubator of the student and the executor of the student by espousing the bounds of what knowledge can be consumed through the knowledge that is implict with their being. Perhaps I can allow myself the title of artist because it cannot be earned by my through structure
or hierarchal assension. It suceeds the suspicion I have because it is a title that intends to subvert it by embuing the power to comment on it as a divorced being. 
This is its own arbitration of truth, but it is more elusive because it doesn't inform truth without participation in it. It requires you to be involved in the process of discerning it parallel to 
the creator of the art itself. It is a title which requires the involvement of the working class to have power over reality, without being a tool for power the way propogandists are. 
